<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<main xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
	<h1><gale:variable expr="${?h1}"/></h1>
	<gale:text tag="default" type="creole">




<ul>
		<li>The chessboard is placed so that the white square is on the right
						side of the player.</li>
		<li>The player with the White pieces always moves	first.</li>
		<li>A pawn on reaching the last rank can be exchanged for a Queen,
						Rook, Bishop or Knight as part of the same move. The
				effect of this promoted piece is immediate. So if the pawn is promoted to
				a Queen, the Queen, if it
						is in a position to do so, may check or	checkmate the
				enemy King.</li>
		<li>Each move must be made with only one hand.</li>
		<li>A piece that is touched must be moved unless moving this piece
				would place the King in check. This is called	the &quot;touch-move	rule&quot;.</li>
		<li>If an opponent's piece is touched then it must be captured if
						possible. If this is not possible then play continues
				as if that piece had	not been touched.</li>
		<li>A person may adjust a piece on the chessboard on her move by
				saying &quot;j'adoube&quot; which is French	for &quot;I	adjust&quot;.</li>
		<li>When castling, the King must be moved first and then the Rook
						brought to stand on the opposite side to the	King.</li>
		<li>When using a clock, the button must be pressed with the hand
						which moved the piece on the chessboard.</li>
		<li>All play should be conducted with respect for the opponent. A
						player should not distract or annoy her opponent	in
				any way.
		</li>
</ul> <br></br>
<p align="center">For a more comprehensive guide to the official rules of chess
		see
            		<a HREF="http://www.fide.com/comms/fidelaws.htm">FIDE Laws of Chess
            		1997</a> </p>
	</gale:text>
</main>

