<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<main xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
  <h1><gale:variable expr="${?h1}"/></h1>
  <gale:text tag="default" type="creole">

<table width="80%" border="0" align="center">
  <tr>
    <td width="77%" valign="top"><h2 align="left" class="red">What is chess?</h2>
      <ul>
        <li> Chess is a fairy tale	of 1001 blunders - Savielly Tartakower </li>
        <li> Chess is a beautiful	mistress. - Larsen </li>
        <li>Chess is life - Bobby	Fischer</li>
        <li> Chess is like life	- Boris Spassky</li>
        <li> Chess is everything	- art, science, and sport. - Karpov</li>
        <li> Chess is 99 percent	tactics. - Teichmann</li>
        <li> Chess is really 99	percent calculation - Soltis</li>
        <li> Chess is mental torture.	- Kasparov</li>
        <li> Chess is ruthless: you've got to be prepared to kill people. - Nigel
          Short</li>
        <li> Chess is a sea in which a gnat may drink and an elephant may bathe
          - Indian proverb</li>
        <li> Chess is as much a	mystery as women - Purdy</li>
      </ul></td>
  </tr>
</table>
<table width="80%" border="0" align="center">
  <tr>
    <td width="77%" valign="top"><h2 align="left" class="red">Reflections</h2>
      <ul>
        <li> Chess, like love, like music, has the power to make men happy. -
          Tarrasch </li>
        <li> You cannot play at	chess if you are kind-hearted. - French Proverb </li>
        <li> Morphy was probably	the greatest genius of them all. - Fischer</li>
        <li> Every chess master	was once a beginner. - Chernev</li>
        <li>Life is too short for chess. - Byron</li>
        <li>A good player is always lucky. -	Capablanca</li>
        <li>A chess game is divided into three stages: the first, when you hope
          you have the advantage, the second when you believe you have an advantage,
          and the third... when	you know you're going to lose! - Tartakower</li>
        <li>When the chess game is over, the pawn and the king go back to the
          same box - Irish saying contributed	by Etienne Goldstein</li>
      </ul></td>
  </tr>
</table>
<table width="80%" border="0" align="center" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0">
  <tr>
    <td valign="top"><h2 class="red">General Tips </h2>
      <ul>
        <li>When you see a good move wait - look for	a better one. -&nbsp; Emanuel
          Lasker </li>
        <li>Play the opening like a book, the middle game like a magician, and
          the endgame like a machine. - Spielmann</li>
        <li>All that matters on the chessboard is	good moves. - Bobby Fischer</li>
        <li>The pawns are the soul of chess. - Philidor</li>
      </ul>
      <h2 class="red">Tactics </h2>
      <ul>
        <li> The blunders are all there	on the board, waiting to be made. - Tartakover </li>
        <li> No price is too great for	the scalp of the enemy King. - Koblentz </li>
        <li> The winner of the game is the player who makes the next-to-last
          mistake. - Tartakover </li>
        <li> A man surprised is half	beaten. - Proverb </li>
        <li> Chess is 99 percent tactics.	- Teichmann </li>
        <li> There are two types of sacrifices:	correct ones and mine. - Tal </li>
        <li> The defensive power of a	pinned piece is only imaginary. - Nimzovich </li>
        <li> The pin is mightier than	the sword. - Reinfeld </li>
        <li> The combination player thinks forward; he starts from the given
          position, and tries the forceful	moves in his mind. - Emanuel Lasker </li>
        <li> Discovered check is the	dive-bomber of the chessboard. - Fine </li>
        <li> If the student forces himself to examine all moves that smite, however
          absurd they may look at first glance, he is on the way to becoming
          a master of tactics. - Purdy </li>
        <li> The tactician knows what to do when there is something to do; whereas
          the strategian knows what to do when there is nothing to do. - Gerald
          Abrahams </li>
        <li> Examine moves that smite! A good eye for smites is far more important
          than a knowledge of strategical	principles. - Purdy </li>
        <li> The scheme of a game is played on positional lines; the decision
          of it, as a rule, is effected	by combinations. - Reti </li>
        <li> In the perfect chess combination as in a first-rate short story,
          the whole plot and counter-plot should lead up to a striking finale,
          the interest not being allayed until the very last moment. - Yates
          and Winter </li>
        <li> A thorough understanding of the typical mating continuations makes
          the most complicated sacrificial combinations leading up to them not
          only not difficult, but almost	a matter of course. - Tarrasch </li>
        <li>It's always better to sacrifice your opponent's	men. - Tartakover </li>
      </ul>
      <table border="0" width="102%" height="140">
        <tr>
          <td width="81%" valign="top" height="136"><h2 align="left" class="red">Middlegame</h2>
            <ul>
              <li> The middlegame I repeat is chess itself; chess with all its
                possibilities, its attacks,	defences, sacrifices, etc. - Znosko-Borovsky </li>
              <li> Before the endgame, the gods have placed the middlegame. -
                Tarrasch </li>
            </ul></td>
        </tr>
      </table>
      <table border="0" width="103%">
        <tr>
          <td width="80%"><h2 align="left" class="red">Endgame</h2>
            <ul>
              <li> Every pawn is a potential	Queen. - Mason </li>
              <li> The Passed Pawn is a criminal, who should be kept under lock
                and key. Mild measures, such as police surveillance, are not
                sufficient. - Nimzovich </li>
              <li> A Passed Pawn increases in strength as the number of pieces
                on the board diminishes.	- Capablanca </li>
              <li> Any material change in a position must come about by mate,
                a capture, or a Pawn	-promotion. - Purdy </li>
            </ul></td>
        </tr>
      </table>
      <table border="0" width="100%">
        <tr>

          <td width="74%" valign="top"><h2 align="left" class="red">Planning</h2>
            <ul>
              <li> Even a poor plan is better than no plan at all. - Mikhail
                Chigorin </li>
              <li>It is not a move, even the best move, that you must seek, but
                a realisable plan. - Znosko-Borovsky</li>
            </ul>
            <h2 align="left" class="red">Analysis</h2>
            <ul>
              <li> Methodical thinking is of more use in chess than inspiration.
                - Purdy </li>
              <li> Chess is the art of	analysis. - Botvinnik </li>
              <li> Chess mastery essentially consists of analysing chess positions
                accurately. - Botvinnik</li>
              <li> Half the variations which are calculated in a tournament game
                turn out to be completely superfluous. Unfortunately, no one
                knows in advance which half	- Jan Tinman </li>
            </ul></td>
        </tr>
      </table></td>
  </tr>
</table>


  </gale:text>
</main>

